Now that we've gotten a sense for what's
in our data set, as a simple example to
get started, we're going to use this
data set to train a classifier that will
automatically identify any future pieces
of fruit that might come our way.
Based on the features available to
the classifier such as the object's color,
size and mass.
To do this, we'll use a popular and
easy to understand type of machine
learning algorithm known as
k-nearest neighbors or k-NN.
The K-Nearest Neighbors algorithm can be
used for classification and regression.
Though, here we'll focus for the time
being on using it for classification.
k-NN classifiers are an example of
what's called instance based or
memory based supervised learning.
What this means is that instance based
learning methods work by memorizing
the labeled examples that
they see in the training set.
And then they use those memorized
examples to classify new objects later.
The k in k-NN refers to the number of
nearest neighbors the classifier will
retrieve and
use in order to make its prediction.
In particular, the k-NN algorithm has
three steps that can be specified.
First of all, when given a new previously
unseen instance of something to classify,
a k-NN classifier will look into its set
of memorized training examples to find
the k examples that have closest features.
And we'll talk about what
closest means in a minute.
Second, the classifier will
look up the class labels for
those k-Nearest Neighbor examples.
And then once it's done that,
it will combine the labels of those
examples to make a prediction for
the label of the new object.
Typically, for example,
by using simple majority vote.
Let's look at a visual
example of a k-NN classifier
that is based on our fruit data set.
So what I've done here is
taken our training set and
plotted each piece of fruit
using two of its features.
The width and the height.
These two features together form
what is called the feature space
of the classifier.
And I've shown each data point's label
using the colors shown in the legend.
So as you can see, there are four
different colors here that correspond to
the four types of fruit
that are in our data set.
These broad areas of color show
how any point, given a width and
height, could be classified according
to a one nearest neighbor rule.
So, in other words, I've set k = 1 here.
So, for example, a data point over here
that had a height of six centimeters and
a width of nine centimeters
would be classified as an apple.
Because it falls within this
red area here that the k-NN
classifier has decided map two objects
that are apples based on the dimensions.
Or for example if I saw that the
classifier saw a piece of fruit that had
a height of four centimeters and
a width of seven centimeters,
it would be classified
as a mandarin orange.
Because it falls within this decision
area that's assigned to mandarin oranges.
So what does it mean to have
a one nearest neighbor rule?
[COUGH] Where did it come
up with these different
class assignments in the first place?
Well, let's take a look at
the apple example over here.
The object that has a height
of six centimeters and
a width of nine centimeters, if you give
the classifier that point, what it will
do is search within all the different
training examples that it's seen.
So it would look at all these points and
see which one is closest, so
we're looking at the nearest
single neighbor.
So we're looking at k=1.
We're trying to find the one
point that's closest to our,
what's called the query point.
This is the point we want to classify.
So, in this case, we can see probably
that this point over here is the nearest
neighbor of the query
point in feature space.
Similarly, if we look at
the mandarin example over here,
the closest training set object
to the query point is one of these
probably, maybe this point right here.
Okay, so that's the nearest
neighbor of that query point.
So for any query point in
the future space, let's say
we're over here in the lemon zone.
The nearest neighbor to this query
point would be this training set
point right here.
And because the training set points
are labeled, we have the labels for
those, in the one nearest neighbor case,
the classifier
will simply assign to the query point,
the class of the nearest neighbor object.
Because the nearest
neighbor here is an apple,
the query point here will
get classified as an apple.
If we look at the mandarin
orange point over here,
the nearest data point
is the mandarin orange.
So it will get classified in that region.
And if we do that for
every possible query point,
we get this pattern of class regions.
The zones where we transition
from one class to another,
this line right here is
called the decision boundary.
Because query points that are on one side
of the line get mapped to one class.
And points that are on the other side of
the line get mapped to a different class.
So, because this is a k-nearest
neighbor classifier, and
we are looking at the case where k = 1,
we can see that the class boundaries here,
the decision boundaries.
Let's take an example over here.
We have a point over here that's an
orange, another point that's a lemon here.
And we can see the decision boundary
because it's based on Euclidean
distance and we're weighting points
equally that the decision boundary
goes exactly at a distance
equidistant to these two things.
That's exactly halfway between
these two points, right?
Because if it were any
closer to this point,
it would be mapped to the orange class.
And if it were any closer to
the lemon instance over here,
it would be mapped as lemon class.
So you can see this pattern for
all the decision boundaries here.
This line is equidistant to
these two nearest points.
So this is basically how the K-Nearest
Neighbor classifies new instances.
So you can imagine with query
points where k is larger than 1,
we might use a slightly more
complicated decision rule.
Let's take this example over here.
Suppose we have a query
point that's in orange.
And we're doing two nearest
neighbours classifications.
So in that case, the two nearest
points are these two points here.
And in cases where k is bigger than 1,
we use a simple majority vote.
We take the class that's most predominant
in the labels of the neighbor examples.
So in this case, the labels happen
to agree they're both oranges.
And so this point in a two nearest
neighbors situation would be classified as
an orange.
When you get points that are closer to,
say, a point
over here, the two nearest neighbors,
in that case, might be these points here.
In which case you could choose randomly
between them to break the tie.
Typically, the value of k is odd, so
that we can simply,
k equals three it might look like this.
And so, you can see that the three nearest
neighbors here are a red point an apple,
a blue point an orange, and
another red point an apple.
So, in the k = 3 case, the vote would
go towards labeling this as an apple.
And that's basically all there is to
the basic mechanism for k-NN classifiers.
More generally,
to use the nearest neighbor algorithm,
we specify four things.
First, we need to define what distance
means in our future space, so
we know how to properly
select the nearby neighbors.
In the example that I just showed you with
the fruit data set, we used the simple
straight line, or euclidean distance
to measure the distance between points.
Second, we must tell the algorithm how
many of these nearest neighbors to use in
making a prediction.
This must be a number
that is at least one.
Third, we may want to give some
neighbors more influence on the outcome.
For example, we may decide
that neighbors that are closer
to the new instance that we're trying to
classify, should have more influence, or
more votes on the final label.
Finally, once we have the labels
of the k nearby points,
we must specify how to combine them
to produce a final prediction.
Here's a specific example of some
typical choices we might make for
these four things.
The most common distance metric and
the one that scikit-learn uses by default
is the euclidean no
straight line distance.
So, technically if you are interested,
the euclidean metric is actually a special
case of a more general metric
called the Minkowski metric, where
there is a parameter p that's set to two
that will give you the euclidean metric.
And you'll see this in the notebook,
when you look at the actual settings,
there done in terms of
the Minkowski metric.
We might choose to use the five nearest
neighbors, let's say, for our choice of k.
And, we might specify that
there's no special treatment for
neighbors that are closer, so
we have a uniform waiting.
Also by default
scikit-learn will apply for
the fourth criterion a simple
majority vote, and it will predict
the class with the most representatives
among the nearest neighbors.
We'll look at a number of alternative
classifiers in next week's class on
supervised learning methods.
For now, let's take a look at the notebook
to see how we apply a k a nearest neighbor
classifier in Python to our
example fruit data set.
As a reminder you can use Shit+tab to show
the documentation pop up for the method as
you're entering it to help remind you of
the different parameter option and syntax.
So, recall that our task was to correctly
classify new, incoming objects.
In our example case, pieces of fruit.
So, our newly trained classifier will
take a data instance as input, and
give us a predicted label as output.
The first step in Python that we need to
take is to load the necessary modules.
As well as load the data set
into a panda's data frame.
After we've done that, we can dump out
the first few rows using the head method
to check the column names, and get some
examples of the first few instances.
Now, what I'm doing next here in
the notebook is defining a dictionary
that takes a numeric fruit
label as the input key.
And returns a value that's a string with
the name of the fruit, and this dictionary
just makes it easier to convert the output
of a classifier prediction to something
a person can more easily interpret,
the name of a fruit in this case.
So, for this example we'll
define a variable capital X
that holds the features of our
data set without the label.
And here I 'm going to use the mass,
width and height of the fruit as features.
So, this collection of features
is called the feature space.
We define a second variable, lower case y,
to hold the corresponding labels for
the instances in x.
Now, we can parse x and y to the train
test split function in circuit LAN.
Normally these splitting into training and
test sets is done randomly, but for
this lecture I want to make sure
we all get the same results.
So, I set the random state
parameter to a specific f=value,
in this case I happen to choose zero.
The results of the train
test split function
are put into the four
variables you see on the left.
And these are marked as x_train,
x_test, y_train, and y_test.
We're going to be using this x and
y variable naming convention throughout
the course to refer to data and labels.
Once we have our train-test split,
we then need to create an instance
of the classifier object.
And in this case a k-NN classifier.
And the set the important parameter in
this case the number of neighbors to
a specific value to be
used by the classifier.
We then train the classifier by passing
in the training set date in X_train,
and the labels in y_train to
the classifiers fit method.
Now, the k-NN classifier that I'm
using in this case is an example of
a more general class called
an estimator in scikit-learn.
So, all estimators have a fit method
that takes the training data, and
then changes the state of the classifier,
or estimator object
to essentially enable prediction
once the training is finished.
In other words it updates the state of
the k and n variable here, which means,
that in the case of k-nners neighbors it
will memorize the training set examples
in some kind of internal storage for
future use.
And that's really all there is to
training the k-NN classifier, and
the first thing we can do with this
newly trained classifier is to see
how accurate it's likely to be on some
new, previously unseen instances.
To do this, we can apply they classifier
to all the instanced in the test set
that we've put aside.
Since these test instances were
not explicitly included in
the classifiers training.
One simple way to assess if the classifier
is likely to be good at predicting
the label of future,
previously unseen data instances,
is to compute the classifier's
accuracy on the test set data items.
Remember, that the k-NN classifier
did not see any of the fruits
in the test set during the training phase.
To do this we use the score method for
the classifier object.
This will take the test set points
as input and compute the accuracy.
The accuracy is defined as
the fraction of test set items,
whose true label was correctly
predicted by the classifier.
We can also use our new classifier to
classify individual instances of a fruit.
In fact this was our
goal in the first place.
Was to be able to take individual
instances of objects and
assign them a label.
So, here, for example.
I'll enter the mass, width and height for
a hypothetical piece of
fruit that is fairly small.
And if we ask the classifier to predict
the label using the predict method.
We can see the output is that it
predicts it's a mandarin orange.
I can then pass a different example, which
is maybe a larger, slightly elongated
fruit that has a height that's greater
than the width and a larger mass.
In this case,
using the predict method on this instance
results in a label that says the
classifier thinks this object is a lemon.
Now let's use a utility function called
plot fruit knn that's included in
the shared utilities module
that comes with this course.
This will produce the colored plots
I showed you earlier that have
the decision boundaries.
You can then try out
different values of k for
yourself to see what the effect
is on the decision boundaries.
The uniformed parameter
that I pass in here,
as the last parameter is
the waiting method to be used.
So here I'm passing in the string uniform,
which means to treat all neighbours
equally when combining their labels.
If you like, you can try changing
this to the word distance,
if you want to try a distance wave method.
You can also pass your own function,
but we'll leave that for later.
We can also see how our new classifier
behaves for different values of k.
So in this series of plots,
we can see the different
decision boundaries
that are produced as k is
varied from one to five to ten.
We can see that when K has a small
value like 1, the classifier
is good at learning the classes for
individual points in the training set.
But with a decision boundary that's
fragmented with considerable variation.
This is because when K = 1, the prediction
is sensitive to noise, outliers,
mislabeled data, and other sources of
variation in individual data points.
For larger values of K, the areas assigned
to different classes are smoother and
not as fragmented and more robust
to noise in the individual points.
But possibly with some mistakes,
more mistakes in individual points.
This is an example of what's known
as the bias variance tradeoff.
And we'll look at that phenomenon and
its implications in more
depth in next week's class.
Given the changes in the classifier's
decision boundaries we observed when we
changed k, the natural question
might be how the value of k,
how the choice of k,
affects the accuracy of the classifier.
We can plot the accuracy as a function
of k very easily using this short
snippet of code.
We see that, indeed, larger values
of k do lead to worse accuracy for
this particular dataset and
fixed single train test split.
Keep in mind though,
these results are only for
this particular training test split.
To get a more reliable estimate of likely
future accuracy for a particular value of
k, we would want to look at results over
multiple possible train test splits.
We'll go into this issue of model
selection next week as well.
In general, the best choice of the value
of k, that is the one that leads to
the highest accuracy, can vary
greatly depending on the data set.
In general with k-nearest neighbors,
using a larger k suppresses the effects
of noisy individual labels.
But results in classification
boundaries that are less detailed.
So we've taken several steps
in this course so far.
We've looked at a data set,
plotted some features.
We then took the features and
learned how to compute a train test split.
Used that to train a classifier and
used the resulting classifier to make
some predictions for new objects.
So congratulations,
you've just created and
run your first machine learning
application in Python.
In next week's class, we'll go into some
supervised learning methods in more depth.
And look beyond k-nearest
neighbors to learn how and
why to apply other types of classifiers
to machine learning problems.